<html>
	<head>
		<title>LWV Voters Guide</title>
		<style>
			body { font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; background: #eee }
		</style>
	</head>
	<body>
		US President
	</body>
</html>

http://lwvhc.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/hoco-g12.pdf

DUTIES: The President is the head of state of the United States of America, Chief Executive Officer and the Commander in Chief of all military forces. The powers of the President are described in the Constitution and federal law. The President appoints the members of the Cabinet, ambassadors to other nations and the United Nations, Supreme Court Justices and federal judges, subject to Senate approval. The President, along with the Cabinet and its agencies, is responsible for carrying out and enforcing the laws of the United States. The President may also recommend legislation to the United States Congress.

HOW ELECTED: Every four years, political parties nominate candidates to run for President of the United States in a general election that is held on the first Tuesday, after the first Monday in November. The popular vote for President and Vice President within each state determines how the members of the Electoral College may vote. There are 538 members in the Electoral College, with 270 votes required to win the Presidency. See http://www.lwv. org/files/ElectingThePresident.pdf for more details.

TERM: Four years. Limit of two terms.

SALARY: $400,000 per year.

Note: All candidates who meet the following three  criteria were invited to participate in this guide.

1. The candidate must have made a public announcement of her/his intention to run for President;
2. The candidate must qualify for the ballot in enough states to win a majority of electoral votes; and,
3. The candidate must meet the Presidential Election Campaign Fund Act’s minimum contribution threshold requirements for qualifying for matching funds, based on the most recent data publicly available on the FEC website.

Questions: 
PERSONAL STATEMENT

GOALS: Please identify your top three goals if elected.

ECONOMY: In this time of high unemployment, what are the most important things that should be done to improve our nation’s economy?

EDUCATION: How can the federal government, in collaboration with other levels of government, provide an equitable, quality public education for all children pre-K through grade 12?

DEFICIT: Explain why you do or do not support cutting Medicare and Social Security to address the federal deficit.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE: Explain why you do or do not support requiring timely and full disclosure of all political expenditures in federal campaigns.

ENVIRONMENT: Explain why you do or do not support the Environmental Protection Agencies’ efforts to enforce strong clean air and clean water standards in America.

--- 
Democratic
Barack Obama and Joe Biden
Website: www.barackobama.com

GOALS: As a nation, our challenges can by met by 
rebuilding the middle class and our economy on a 
stronger foundation. I have laid out a set of concrete 
goals on manufacturing, energy, education, national 
security, and the deficit that will create jobs, expand 
opportunity, and create an economy build to last.

ECONOMY: When I took office we were losing 
private sector jobs at a rate of nearly 800,000 
a month. Now we have experienced 30 straight 
months of private-sector job growth, creating 4.6 
million private sector jobs. I have proposed steps 
to create a million more jobs by preventing teacher 
layoffs, putting construction workers back to work, 
bringing jobs back from overseas, and helping small 
businesses grow.

EDUCATION: My administration spurred 46 states 
to raise standards for teaching and learning and 
strengthened Head Start. Millions of students are 
paying less for college because we cut student loan 
subsidies for banks and doubled scholarships. We 
will recruit 100,000 math and science teachers, train 
2 million workers for real jobs through community 
colleges, and cut the growth of tuition in half.

DEFICIT: Social Security and Medicare are sacred 
compacts with seniors who earned benefits after 
a lifetime of hard work. I added eight years to 
the solvency of Medicare without cutting benefits 
by cracking down on waste, fraud, and subsidies 
to insurance companies. I have proposed steps to 
strengthen Medicare and Social Security without 
slashing benefits or subjecting it to the whims of the 
stock market.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE: Powerful special interests 
should not drown out the voices of the American 
people. We need to pass the bipartisan Disclose Act 
that would establish the toughest-ever disclosure 
requirements for election-related spending. I also 
support campaign finance reform, by constitutional 
amendment if necessary.

ENVIRONMENT: Nothing is more important than 
ensuring the air we breathe and the water we drink is 
safe. We have broken decades of gridlock to double 
fuel mileage standards, effectively cutting your cost 
at the pump in half and reducing air pollution. And 
we’ve set standards for new mercury and other toxic 
air emissions from power plants and other sources 
that combined will save up to 21,600 lives a year. 

Republican
Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan 
Website: www.mittromney.com

PERSONAL STATEMENT: I am running for president 
because I believe in America and know that our 
best days are still ahead. I will make it my priority 
to create 12 million new jobs and get our economy 
going again.

GOALS: The first priority of a Romney 
Administration will be to create 12 million new jobs 
and get our economy going again. We must get our 
fiscal house in order. President Obama has put our 
nation on an unsustainable course. As president, Mitt 
Romney will set the country on the path to a balanced 
budget. And he will ensure we have a military so 
strong that no adversary would want to test it.

ECONOMY: Mitt Romney will get America back 
to work by reforming our tax code so businesses can 
hire more workers, developing our domestic energy 
resources to create new jobs here at home, reversing 
burdensome job-destroying regulations—including 
Obamacare, and ensuring Americans receive 
education and training for today’s jobs. His plan will 
also get spending under control to prevent a debt 
crisis.

EDUCATION: Mitt Romney believes that this 
important goal begins with providing parents with 
increased choice and information. He has put forth 
a plan that would allow federal funding to follow 
low-income and special needs students to the school 
of their choice. This plan also would support high quality charter schools in scaling up and reward 
states that recruit and retain the best teachers.

DEFICIT: Entitlement programs like Social Security 
and Medicare are large parts of the federal budget. 
Mitt Romney’s plan to reform these programs will 
not only protect the benefits and services of current 
seniors and those nearing retirement, but will 
strengthen the programs so they are available for 
future generations.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE: Mitt Romney understands 
that money can be a corrupting influence in politics. 
But layers of regulations have not taken money out 
of politics; they have instead created a system of 
PACs that are not accountable to the candidates 
they support. He believes the best solution is swift 
and full disclosure of all donations to candidates. 
This allows the American people to hold politicians 
accountable.

ENVIRONMENT: Mitt Romney is proud of the 
environmental progress that we have made to 
improve our nation’s air and water quality and 
supports continued progress. However, while our air 
and water laws have served us well over the years, he 
recognizes that they are significantly out of date and 
in need of reform. 

Libertarian
Gary Johnson and James P. Gray 
Website: www.garyjohnson2012.com

PERSONAL STATEMENT: After having built a 
successful business, I entered public service by 
asking the people of New Mexico to give me an 
opportunity to bring common sense leadership to 
the Office of Governor. I pledged to reduce taxes, 
reduce the size of state government 

GOALS: 1. Balance the Federal Budget. 2. Cut 
Federal spending by the amount necessary to 
eliminate deficit spending without raising taxes. 
3. Remove the United States from unnecessary and 
costly foreign wars and interventions, including 
Afghanistan.

ECONOMY: The Federal Budget must be brought 
under control to eliminate the massive deficits that are 
threatening the economy and our security. Removing 
the burden of deficits and debt will restore confidence 
and free up capital to permit the economy to grow. 
I advocate a consumption tax which would allow 
us to eliminate taxes on income, capital gains and 
businesses – creating millions of new jobs.

EDUCATION: The Federal government cannot and 
should not try to provide public education. Decades 
of increasing federal interference in education 
has done little other than stifle innovation and 
competition in public education. Education should 
be left to the states, which will permit the types of 
innovation and education choices that will allow us to 
regain its competitive advantage in global education.

DEFICIT: It is not possible to preserve health care 
programs for future generations, while bringing 
federal spending under control and not reducing 
Medicare. Not addressing Medicare and Medicaid 
spending will result in an insolvent system. Under 
a program of block grants, the states can fashion 
their own health care programs for those who 
need assistance, more effectively than the Federal 
government.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE: Full and immediate 
disclosure and transparency for campaign 
contributions and expenditures is the only effective 
way to give the American public confidence in the 
system and allow them to make their own decisions 
regarding the propriety of how one candidate or 
another finances his or her campaigns.

ENVIRONMENT: The Federal government’s most 
fundamental role is to protect citizens. To the extent 
that fulfilling that role requires enforcement actions 
by the EPA, that enforcement should be reasonable, 
but adequate to protect us from harm. The EPA, 
however, should not be in the business of managing 
the environment through regulations that force 
decisions that should be left to the marketplace, such 
as energy.

Green
Jill stein and Cheri Honkala 
Website: www.jillstein.org

PERSONAL STATEMENT: We can’t afford four more 
years of Wall Street bailouts and an economy for 
the superrich. We must guarantee every individual a 
job at a living wage, quality health care, tuition-free 
education, Social Security and a healthy climate and 
environment. 

GOALS: I stand for a Green New Deal that will 
deliver 1) A recession-proof economy that provides 
a job at a living wage for every American willing 
and able to work, 2) An economy based on clean, 
renewable energy, 3) Replacement of the predatory 
Wall Street banks with a public interest banking 
system, and 4) A real democracy in which politicians 
are accountable to voters not big money donors.

ECONOMY: My Green New Deal will create 
25 million jobs through a nationally funded but 
locally controlled direct employment initiative. 
This will eliminate long term unemployment by 
letting workers simply go to the local employment 
office and get a job. It will deliver the most effective 
stimulus of all: millions of workers with paychecks.

EDUCATION: I will end Washington’s attempts 
to promote high stakes testing, corporatization 
of public schools, and destructive union-busting 
schemes. I will repeal the misguided No Child 
and Race to the Top laws and refocus on creating 
schools that prepare students for lifetime learning: 
full funding, small class sizes, teachers that are well 
trained, respected, and compensated, and parental 
involvement.

DEFICIT: Neither Medicare nor Social Security will 
be cut under the Green New Deal. I will guarantee 
health care for everyone under a Medicare for All 
reform that will save trillions by streamlining the 
massive, wasteful, health insurance bureaucracy and 
ending runaway medical inflation. I will make Social 
Security permanently solvent by lifting the income 
cap on the payroll taxes.

CAMPAIGN FINANCE: I support full disclosure 
of donor identities. But we must do more to 
eliminate the poisonous impact of big money on 
our democracy. We must amend our Constitution to 
prevent corporations from stealing our democratic 
rights by claiming the same rights as real people. We 
also need to end the buying of elections by providing 
clean money funding for candidates that agree to 
spending limits.

ENVIRONMENT: We cannot afford the health 
injuries, natural resource losses, and ecological 
disintegration that result from lax EPA enforcement. 
I will require EPA to address new threats to our 
air, land, water, and climate from hydrofracking, 
deepwater drilling and more. EPA must fully 
implement the ozone standards that were killed by 
the Obama Administration.